A Sādhana of Kurukullā
from the Tidro Dharma Cycle
by Khenchen Jigme Puntsok

Namo guru deva ḍākkiye
I, the Self-arisen Lotus King, have condensed the essential points of the tantras, transmissions,
and instructions of the development, completion and great perfection cycles to the size
of a sesame seed and concealed them within this stone casket shaped like an auspicious
conch shell. I place it within your hand, Tsogyal. In the future, during the final period,
give it to my unmistaken heart-child when he’s engaged in courageous activity at Tidro,
gathering place of ḍākinīs and residence of the realized ones of Chimpu. Samaya.
Here, in this sādhana of Kurukullā which opens the Dharma cycle of Tidro, there are the following
stages:
Refuge and Bodhicitta
First, take refuge and generate the heart of enlightenment:
namo
Namo
di né changchub nyingpor chi kyi bar
Until achieving enlightenment
bumtrak khandrö tsok la kyab su chi
I turn for refuge to the myriad ḍākinī hosts,
dukngal gyatsor jingwé dro tsok kün
And generate bodhicitta so as to place all those
ten dé sa la göpar semkyé do
Bound to the ocean of suffering, within stable bliss.
Protective Sphere
Removal of obstacles and meditation upon the protection sphere:
hrih gang nang detong yeshe rolpa la
Hrīḥ. Whatever appears is the play of bliss-void,
ma dak gek shyejawé ming yangmé
Within which even the designation ‘impure obstacles’ is unknown.
nangsi ö mar long du shyüpa yi
Abiding within the luminous red expanse of appearance
dechen pomé long du tsam ché do
The boundary of the immutable expanse of bliss is set.
Descent of Blessings
Causing blessings to descend:
hrih neyul durtrö dakpé shyingkham né
Hrīḥ. From the pure fields of the places, lands and charnel grounds
dul nyé khandrö duwa ying né shyeng
Ḍākinīs, arisen from basic space gather here like dust motes;
kalden lü ngak yi kyi nangcha kün
And shower the supreme blessings, the inseparability of bliss and void,
detong yermé chok gi jin pob chik
Upon the body, speech and mind of the fortunate.
om kurukullé sapariwara awéshaya dza dza pem pem tishta lhen
Oṃ kurukulle saparivāra aveśaya ja jaḥ pheṃ pheṃ tiṣtha lhan
Blessing the Offering Substances
hrih wangshé yul gyi düpé chö so chik
Hrīḥ. The arrangement of sensory stimulants,
khordé nyamnyi kunzang chöpé trin
Fine clouds of offerings equaling the entirety of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
mumé sishyi khyön kün yong khyabpa
Pervade the immeasurable whole of existence and peace
chöyul lha nam nyepé chi du gyur
And become objects which delight the gods
benza saparana kham
Vajra sapharaṇa kham
Main Practice
The actual practice of generating the deity:
a chö kün ösal kadak ngang nyi lé
Ah. From within the primordially pure luminosity of all phenomena,
rangnang namdak dechen dakki dal
The utterly pure self-appearance, reality of the great bliss ḍākinī,
rangrig hrih yik mar sal lammewa
This awareness appears vividly as a red syllable Hrīḥ;
ö trö dön nyi jé né tsur düpa
Radiating light, it accomplishes the dual benefit;
gyal kün sosor tokpé yeshe ku
Retracting it transforms me into the mighty Kurukullā—
chomden rikjé wangmo longkü ché
Embodiment of all the victors’ discriminative wisdom—clothed in the saṃbhogakāya attire.
shyal chik chak nyi utpal dashyu geng
I have one face; my hands hold a drawn utpala arrow set in an utpala bow;
shyab nyi kyangkum pé nyi den la rol
And with my legs drawn out and stretched in, I frolic upon cushions of sun and lotus.
khor du shying ngak lhenkyé dakki tsok
Myriad ḍākinīs, born from the fields, mantras and spontaneously born, surround me;
nyizer dul tar rangnang gyen du shar
They adorn me, like dust motes in sunlight.
Invocation of the Wisdom Deities
hrih dechen wang gi podrang ö bar né
Hrīḥ. From Blazing Light—the palace of great bliss—
dul nyé khandro tso dang khor tsok ché
Ḍākinī and your entourage, as numerous as dust motes,
wang gi lé nam delak drub chirdu
Come forth, unimpeded through the force of your compassion,
ma tok tukjé tob kyi né dir shek
For the easily accomplish the magnetizing activities!
benza samaya dza
Vajra samaya ja
Request to be Seated
hrih ying lé rangshar yeshe lha yi tsok
Hrīḥ. Assembly of Wisdom deities, self-arisen from basic space;
tingdzin tsechik drubpé damtsikpar
Come to the pledge-beings, established out of single concentration,
jitar chu la chu shyak jishyin du
And, like water poured into water, become of one taste with them,
yermé ro chik tenpar shyuk su sol
Indivisible and steadfast.
tishta lhen
Tiṣṭha lhan
Presenting the Offerings
hrih khaying künkhyab kunzang chöpé trin
Hrīḥ. Within suchness dissolving into suchness
chönyi la ni chönyi timpa dang
And the divine dissolving into the divine,
lha la lha tim ngang du bul lak na
Fine clouds of offerings—pervading the entirety of space—are presented to you:
khordé wang du duwé ngödrub tsol
Please bestow the ability to magnetize the whole of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
maha pu tsa khahi
Mahā pāja khāhi
Short Praise
hrih sor tok yeshe dzé duk langtsor pö
Hrīḥ. Powerful mother, Kurukullā, discriminative wisdom arisen as a beauty;
jam nyen pemé da yi si sum bik
As smooth and supple as a lotus petal, nevertheless, you pierce the three worlds;
chakpé zol gyi chakchen dewar tri
Cunning, you use desire to blissfully lead the desirous to birth
pak shyi kyé yum rikjé wangmor tö
As one of the four kinds of noble ones,1 I praise you.
Recitation
tukkar nyi teng hrih la ngak kyi kor
At my heart is a sun-disc, atop of which is the syllable Hrīḥ surrounded by a mantra garland.
ö trö pak chö dro kün drib nyi jang
Light radiates from them making offerings to the noble ones and cleansing others of their two
obscurations,
tamché detong ö mar long du shyu
Culminating with them all melting within great bliss’s luminous red expanse and then dissolving
into me;
rang la timpé choktün ngödrub tob
There through achieving the common and uncommon attainments.
om kuru kullé hrih soha
Oṃ kurukulle hrīḥ svāhā
Through reciting this 100, 1000, 10,000, or 100,000 times, one will accomplish all magnetizing
activities, as well as achieving the four kāyas. Samaya!
Blessing the Tsok
hrih é yik tongchen ying kyi kapalar
Hrīḥ. The letter É—the skull-cup of the basic space of great emptiness—within which
wam yik khordé chö kün tsok su sham
The letter Vaṃ—all phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa—are arranged as an offering,
dechen pogyur mepar jin gyi lab
And blessed as the immutable great bliss,
chöyul lha nam gyepé trin du gyur
Becoming the offering clouds which delight the deities.
Offer the tsok with the sky-treasury mudrā and mantra:
Tsok Offering
hrih chitar zacha tungwa damtsik dzé
Hrīḥ. Outwardly: food and drink as the substance of samaya;
nangtar khajor detong lugar dang
Inwardly: song and dance, the union of bliss and void;
sangwa riktong dzogpachenpo yi
And in secret: the empty awareness of the great perfection;
tsokchö bul lo tukdam kong gyur chik
I offer them all! Please repair any breaches of samaya!
gana tsatra pu tsa khahi
Ganacakra pūja khāhi
Dedication of Merit
gewa di tsön dü sum lek jé tü
Through the force my fine actions committed throughout the three times,
den nyi yermé lhenkyé daki ni
As exemplified by this merit here;
gopang tsé di nyi la ngöngyur né
May I achieve the state of the spontaneously born ḍākinī—the union of the two truths—
trinlé nam shyi dro kün drenpar shok
And lead all beings by means of the four activities.
Verse of Auspiciousness
ho namtar sumden dorjé tsünmö khar
Ho. The Vajra Queen’s citadel, adorned with the three gates of liberation,2
nyi nang tokpé gyuwa tadak shi
Has put an end to the movement of dualistic thought;
sang sum tak khyab lhündrub rolpa yi
With the play of the three secrets’ permanence, pervasiveness and spontaneity,
gelek nangwé sa sum khyabpar shok
May virtue and goodness pervade the three realms!
You may also elaborate by inserting other prayers and verses of auspiciousness.
The essence of the stone casket shaped like an auspicious conch shell was not received at the
correct time. Nevertheless, due to the aspiration of many teachers and given that this practice
is simple and easy to practice, I have decided to disseminate the first portion of
the terma. With the aspiration that I might see, from amongst my many wishes, peace, comfort
and happiness spread and increase throughout the country; I, Abhaya Lakṣmamākara, wrote
this (which is neither a treasure nor entirely my own composition) without any obstacles.
Virtue!

| Translated by Sean Price, 2004. First published on Lotsawa House, 2019.
↑ The four noble ones are the arhats of the pious attendants (nyan thos), self-centred buddhas
(rang rgyal), bodhisattvas (byang chub sems dpa') and buddhas (sangs rgyas).↑ The three
gateways to liberation are emptiness (stong pa nyid,) characterlessness (mtshan ma med pa)
and wishlessness (smon pa med pa).