Accomplishing All Activity
A Daily Practice of the Great and Glorious Dorje Drolö
revealed by Khenchen Jigme Puntsok

Namo guru padma-herukāya!
Here, a practitioner of the unelaborate should begin with the preliminaries of taking refuge
and generating bodhicitta, then continue with:
hung, nöchü namdak kunzang yum gyi long
Hūṃ, Environment and inhabitants, utterly pure, are Samantabhadrī’s expanse,
kün nang nyingjé kunzang yab kyi dal
The universal radiance of compassion is the maṇḍala of Samantabhadra,
zungjuk sé chok dechen changchub sem
And the supreme offspring of their union is the bodhicitta of great bliss
nampa hung yik muknak kha la shar
In the form of a syllable Hūṃ, reddish-brown, which arises in space.
ö trö dön nyi jé né tsur düpa
Light shines out, accomplishes twofold benefit, and is reabsorbed,
palchen chi pal dorjé drowolö
Then there appears the great and glorious Dorje Drolö, universal in splendour,
marmuk shyal chik chak nyi chen sum dré
Reddish-brown, with one face, two hands and three eyes staring wide open,
marmin ralwa marser nam du zeng
His eyebrows and locks of hair are orange and stand on end.
amtsik dampé tsem kyi gangri lé
He chews his lower lip and from the snow peaks of his teeth
kyintang zol né gyal sen damsi yi
Sends a storm of hail and sleet upon gyalpo, senmo and damsi,
nga pung drawa chö kyi ying su tim
Dissolving the webs of their five aggregates into the dharmadhātu.
chak yé namchak dorjé kha la char
With his right hand he holds aloft a vajra of meteoric iron,
tro chung tok char drawö tok tu beb
From which tiny wrathful forms burst out to strike enemies like thunder.
chak yön namchak purbu dengpé tser
His left hand brandishes a kīla of meteoric iron,
lhok lhok barwé mepung trulkhor gyi
From whose tip masses of fire and magical wheels blaze forth
nöjé gek tsok shyimé shyob tul sek
To sear, crush and burn away harm-doers and obstacle-makers without trace.
rab jik takmo drüma gyingwé teng
He stands upon a pregnant tigress, who is menacingly poised,
shyab nyi gyé kyi dortab tsul du dré
With his two feet in the open stance of a fighter.
shyiwé ché dzok dungma karpo dang
He wears a white undergarment to signify the perfection of pacifying;
gyepé ché dzok chögö cholwar nab
He wears loose dharma robes to signify the perfection of enriching;
wang gi ché dzok ber muk lhab lhub sol
He wears a flowing maroon cloak to signify the perfection of magnetizing;
drakpö ché dzok go treng seral jé
And a garland of heads hanging from his shoulders to signify the perfection of subjugation.
trotum ngampa drakpö ku ru sal
He appears clearly, in wrathful form, furious and devastating in his rage.
dé yi chitsuk pé da rim tsek teng
At his crown, arranged in tiers upon seats of lotus and moon
gyü sum lamé jinlab ja ö trik
The gurus of the three lineages sit amidst rainbow-coloured lights of blessing.
bar gyi cha la gyüdé shyi druk gi
In the central region gather hosts of yidam deities
yidam tsok kyi ngödrub chartrin tib
From the four or six classes of tantra—like clouds filled with blessing rain.
ok gi cha la né sum khandro yi
Beneath are the ḍākinīs of the three places,
detong ö mar du tro kyi li li
Constantly emanating and reabsorbing the red light of bliss and emptiness.
takor dé sum sungmé tsok nam kyi
Surrounding them all are the hosts of guardians of the three categories,1
lung nak trikpé trinlé nam shyi drup
Swirling like a violent storm and carrying out the four types of activity.
kün kyang ronyam yeshe chik gi ngang
All the deities are in a state of wisdom, unified and of a single taste.
khakhyab gyutrul drawé nampar sé
Awakened as forms of the web of magical illusion that pervades the whole of space,
döné damtsik yeshe nyimepa
Samayasattva and jñānasattva are non-dual from the very beginning,
detong long yang chenpö gyen du shar
Arising as an ornament within the vast expanse of bliss-emptiness.
tsokhor yongdzok hung dra drakpa yi
The whole maṇḍala—principal deity and retinue—proclaims the sound of Hūṃ.
nangwa tamché hung gi zuk su gyur
All appearances are transformed into the syllable Hūṃ;
dra drak tamché hung gi draké dé
All sounds reverberate as the sound of Hūṃ;
dren tok tamché nyamnyi hung gi ngang
All thoughts and impressions are the evenness experience of Hūṃ.
redok dzin shyen mepé ngang né da
I thus recite in a state without clinging or attachment, hope or fear:
hung hung hung
Hūṃ! Hūṃ! Hūṃ!
tün tar hung nam lha la tim
At the end of the session, the Hūṃ syllables dissolve into the deities,
khor nam tsowö tukkar du
And the retinue dissolves into the heart of the main deity.
tsowo chakgya chikpé ku
The main deity appears in the single-mudrā form.
sal dak ten sum tsangwa yi
And with clarity, pure recollection and stable pride,
gyün gyi chölam la jukja
I set about my regular daily activity.
Samaya.
I, Lekshe Zangpo,2 a bhikṣu follower of Śākyamuni,Who wears the ornaments of pure wisdom and
ethical discipline,Wish only to bring great benefit to the teachings and beingsAnd thought
to conceal such profound hidden meaning in my heart.Yet, through Padma’s true words and
the force of past aspirations,Some secret words have here escaped in my speech.Although I
have already become master of several dharma treasuriesOf both profound earth terma and expansive
mind terma,It is difficult to find worthy vessels to spread such profound teachings,And
I should therefore curb the elaborations of excessive talk.In future, may the one called
Dorje Tokme TsalTake out this dharma to aid the teachings and beings!This was spoken
in a state of wonder.

Thus, when arriving at the glorious cave in Paro Taktsang, the supreme place where Guru Dorje
Drolö subjugated all the māras and damsi demons, from the accomplishment cycle of the profound
earth treasure of Dorje Drolö, Complete Sugata Assembly, merely the essential body
maṇḍala, since it is so beneficial, was brought forth through ḍākinī symbols and committed
to writing. May this be a cause for the vanquishing of all flaws and failings among the teachings
and beings. Maṅgalam. 23rd day of the seventh month of the Iron Horse year (1990).

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.
↑ i.e., The three categories of space, mind and pith instructions.↑ i.e., Khenchen Jigme Puntsok.