Aspiration for the Spread of the Teachings of the Eight Chariots of the Practice Lineage
by Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok

drangmé kalpa mangpö gong rol né
Countless aeons ago, with a motivation
nyingjé tukkyé drakpo khur shyé té
Of intense compassion, you took on the burden
tsöden münpé shying di yong zungwa
Of caring for this realm in a dark and turbulent age—
tön chok tubpé wangpo gong su sol
Supreme guide, Lord of Sages, consider this, I pray!

gang gi tek chok nyingpö ringluk ni
When the essential traditions of your supreme vehicle
silden khawé jong dir darwa la
Spread to this frigid and snowy land, there arose
drubgyü shingta gyé ché yong drakpé
What became known as the eight chariots of the practice lineage—
ten dang tendzin chok tar gyé gyur chik
May their teachings and adherents spread far and wide!

gyalten chi dang nanggyü yoga sum
The excellent unrivalled path that upholds, preserves and spreads
khyepar ösal dorjé nyingpö sol
The traditions of the general Buddhadharma and three yogas of the inner tantras,
dzin kyong pelwé lamzang da mepa
Especially the luminous vajra essence—1
tsokyé gyalwé tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of the Lake-Born Conqueror flourish and spread!

drimé labpa sum gyi gyü dam shing
Exercising restraint through the three immaculate trainings,
tubwang chenzik drolma miyowa
And relying on the Lord of Sages, Avalokiteśvara, Tārā and Acala
miché ten gyi kyab su nyer tenpé
As infallible and enduring sources of protection—
jowo kadam tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of the Jowo Kadampas flourish and spread!

khyepar ati sha yi ringluk chok
Skilled in upholding Atiśa’s sublime tradition in particular
shedrub drima mepé dzin khé shing
Through flawless study and practice and pure Vinaya observance,
dul dzin tsangmé nordzin geng nüpé
And able thereby to nourish the entire wealth-bearing world—
riwo geden tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of the Riwo Gendenpas flourish and spread!

jampal yeshe sempé tukjé gar
Upon the basis of the wisdom intent of the five patriarchs,2
gongma nam ngé tukgong nyingpö til
Compassionate emanations of the wisdom being Mañjuśrī,
kyé dor lamdré nyamlen tsor jepé
Emphasising the practices of Hevajra and Path with its Fruit—
palden sakyé tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the glorious Sakya teachings flourish and spread!

drubchen naropa dang metriwé
Teachings from the lineage of the mahāsiddhas Nāropa and Maitripāda,
gyüpé kasol tab lam chö druk dang
The tradition of practising the six dharmas as the path of skilful means
drollam chakgya chenpo nyam shyepé
And the Great Seal (Mahāmudrā) as the path of liberation—
dro gön kagyü tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of the Kagyüpas, protectors of beings, flourish and spread!

shyenyang shyijé shangpa jonang dang
In addition, may all the pure, nonsectarian teachings of the victorious ones,
nyendrub lasok ri su machepé
Such as the Pacification, Shangpa Kagyü, Jonang,
namdak gyalwé tenpa jinyé kün
Approach and Accomplishment and so on,
sipé tar yang yongsu gyé gyur chik
Continue to flourish and spread even unto the ends of existence!

chok sum tsa sum sungmé jinlab dang
Through the blessings of the Three Jewels, Three Roots and Dharma Guardians,
chönyi namdak chöchen tendrel tü
And through the power of the pure dharmatā and phenomenal interdependence,
dak gi yi la mönpé ré dré kün
May all the hopes and aspirations within my mind—
malü yongsu drubpar dzé du sol
Each and every one of them—be perfectly fulfilled, I pray!

As a consequence of a request from the great and noble being Tashi Dorje of Derge, Ngawang Lodrö
Tsungmé spoke these words.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2021.

Source: 'jigs med phun tshogs 'byung gnas. "sgrub brgyud shing rta brgyad kyi bstan rgyas smon
lam." In gsung 'bum/_'jigs med phun tshogs 'byung gnas. gser rta: gser thar bla rung lnga
ring nang bstan slob gling, 200?. TBRC W1PD95698. Vol. 1: 318 - 319.
↑ I.e., Dzogchen, or the Great Perfection.↑ Sachen Kunga Nyingpo, Sönam Tsemo, Jetsün Drakpa
Gyaltsen, Sakya Paṇḍita Kunga Gyaltsen and Chögyal Pakpa.