Prayer to the Chain of Rebirths
by Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok

ngön tsé pak yul drachom sa gi lha
In the past, in the noble land of India, you were the arhat Sagilha,
pemé chen ngar dorje düdjom jé
In Padmasambhava’s presence, you were the lord Dorje Dudjom,
sakya gong du kunga gyaltsen pal
As the head of the Sakya, you were the glorious Kunga Gyaltsen,1
genden ling du gelek palzang shyap
At Geden Ling, you were the noble Gelek Palzang,2
minyak yul du kunzang chödrak sok
And in Minyak, you were Kunzang Chödrak—3
khé dang drup nyé du mé tsul zung né
Taking the form of such learned and accomplished masters,
tupten gyépar dzé la solwa dep
You spread the Buddha’s teachings—to you I pray!
data shenyen mangpö jé su zung
Now, you have been cared for by many teachers,
tö sam gompé jangwa né du nün
And applied the key points of study, reflection and meditation.
mipam gyatsö chinlap nying la shyuk
The blessings of Mipham Gyatso have entered your heart,
drang yé dro dön dzé la solwa dep
And you bring benefit to countless beings—to you I pray!
ma ong rikden drakpö makpön chok
In future, you will manifest as Karmavajra,
lekyi dorjé la sok trulpa yi
The supreme commander to Kalkin Raudra Cakrin,4 and so on,
namkha si du drowé dön dzépé
In this way, you will continue to work for beings for as long as space exists,
kyab chik lama jé la solwa dep
To you, my only refuge, noble guru, I pray!
rangdön tö sam gompa taru khyöl
Having reached the limit of one’s own benefit through study, reflection and meditation,
shyen dön ché tsö tsompé trinlé gyé
One acts for others’ sake, through explanation, debate and composition is extensive,
nyi dön shédrup lé kyi söl tö né
Having set out upon the path of twofold benefit through study, practice and activity,
dren chok khyé dang yermé sangyé shok
May I attain enlightenment inseparably from you, the supreme guide!

Although I certainly lack such an illustrious chain of rebirths, an incarnate tertön once flattered
me with such a statement,5 and rather than simply ignoring that, I wrote this hastily
at the insistence of five excellent disciples.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2018.
↑ Sakya Paṇḍita Kunga Gyaltsen (1182–1251)↑ Khedrup Jé Gelek Palzang (1385–1438), one of the
principal disciples of Tsongkhapa Lobzang Drakpa.↑ Also known as Thubpten Chökyi Drakpa (1823–1905),
author of three celebrated commentaries to the Bodhicaryāvatāra.↑ Tib. Rigs ldan
drag po ’khor lo can. The final king of Shambhala.↑ This refers to Apang Tertön, Pawo Chöying
Dorje (1895–1945).