Swift Bestowal of Blessings: A Peaceful Sādhana of Mañjuśrī
by Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok

shyi ying kadak shyönnu bumpé ku
The ground is primordially pure space, the youthful vase body;
dang tsal magak rangrig changchub sem
Its radiant energy is unceasing—my own awareness, bodhicitta,
ngedön jampal pawö daknyi du
Is of the nature of the hero Mañjuśrī on an ultimate level.
rang ngo shepé ngang né kyab su chi
In recognition of this, my own true essence, I take refuge.

lobur trulnang gyumé drongkhyer la
In the illusory city of incidental deluded perception,
até shyenpé khormor chenpa nam
Beings roam endlessly through clinging to things as real—
yedrol chökü sa la ukyung chir
To bring them all to the dharmakāya’s primordial freedom,
ta drol chok shyak chenpor semkyé do
I generate bodhicitta in the great settling beyond extremes.

khorwa kunzang nyangdé kuntuzang
Saṃsāra is entirely positive, and nirvāṇa is wholly good too,
kunzang long na kyeshi deduk mé
In the All Good expanse, there’s no birth, no death, no pleasure and no pain.
chönyi gyurwa mepé den tob kyi
Through the power of the truth of the unchanging dharmatā,
rangshyin ngön du gyurwé jin pob chik
Let the inspiration to realize true reality descend upon us.

kadak tingsal deshyin nyi kyi ngang
In an experience of reality, primordial purity and profound luminosity,
lhündrub riktsal nyingjé chenpor shar
The spontaneously present play of awareness dawns as great compassion.
yermé khakhyab kha yi dorjé nyi
Inseparable unity, extending everywhere, is the vajra of space,
nampa tak kyi chakgyar yong shyengpa
Which fully emerges in apparent form as a symbolic mudrā:
gyal kün khyenpé rang zuk jampé yang
Mañjughoṣa, embodiment of the wisdom of all the buddhas.
shyi dzum tsenpé rab dzé shyönnü tsul
He is peaceful, smiling, graced with signs and marks, and youthful.
tsam trin dangdzin rinchen dar gyi gyen
He has the glow of twilit clouds and is adorned with jewels and silks.
chak yé sherab raldri kha la char
In his right hand he holds aloft and brandishes the sword of wisdom,
yönpé utpal tengdu lekbam nam
In his left he holds of volume of text that rests upon an utpala.
nyagang dawé nönpé chukyé khar
He is seated on a water-born lotus resting upon a full moon disc
gying bak tsul gyi shyab nyi kyiltrung shyuk
With his two legs crossed in a posture of majestic ease.
ku yi bapü khungbu rerer yang
Within each and every pore of his body
rangjung gyüdé kyilkhor drang lé dé
Self-arisen tantric maṇḍalas appear in countless number.
teng ok choktsam ja ö bum dal long
Above, below and all around, amidst an expanse of rainbow light,
tsa gyü lama daki damchen tsok
The root and lineage gurus, ḍākinīs and oath-bound guardians
nyizer dul tar rang nang gyen du shar
Arise as a spontaneous adornment, like specks of dust in a sunbeam.

om, yömé tongpa shintu naljor tü
Oṃ. Through the force of Atiyoga, empty of existence and non-existence,
namkha shyindu damtsik nyewar né
The samaya connection is always fully present, like space.
demchok dewar shekpa gong su sol
O sugata of perfect bliss, turn your attention toward me.
jampal shyönnu kalzang pal khyö dak
Youthful Mañjuśrī, you who embody fortune and splendour,
rangshyin trödral chönyi podrang né
From the natural and unelaborated palace of dharmatā,
rangjung tukjé daknyi chomdendé
Embodiment of self-arisen compassion, transcendent conqueror,
marik küntok münpa selwé chir
In order to dispel the darkness of unknowing and conceptuality,
rangjung yeshe chendren shek su sol
I invite you in your self-arisen wisdom form: come now, I pray.

damtsikpa dang yeshe sempa la
In order to rid my mind of attachment to good and bad
zang ngen ranggyü shyenpa drolwé chir
With regard to the samaya- and wisdom-beings,
khyen tsé nü pé daknyi chomdendé
Remain here, you who embodies wisdom, love and power,
yermé ro chik tenpar shyuk su sol
Transcendent conqueror, steadfast and indivisibly united, I pray.

nangsal long lé sharwé yeshe lha
The wisdom deity may arise from the expanse of inner luminosity
shyal chak gyen gyi köpa chir nang yang
And appear as an arrangement of face, hands and adornments,
rangsem nampar dakpé chotrul du
But it is the manifestation of mind’s own utter purity.
rang ngo shepé da yi chak gyi’o
In recognition of my very essence, I offer symbolic homage.

yul wang shépé tsönpé chö so chok
All phenomena, represented by the objects of sensory cognition,
döné namdak chöpé chakgyar dzok
Are pure from the beginning and perfect in this mudrā of offering.
shyenmé tingdzin gyalpö trul tab kyi
Without attachment, and through the magic of king-like concentration,
chöying khyön kün kang té taktu bul
I make these perpetual offerings that fill the dharmadhātu entirely.

lung lé ma jung mengak sang lam gyi
Through the secret path of instructions that do not arise from scripture,
gyu lé ma jung drebü tensi zin
You seized the stronghold of a fruition that does not derive from causes,
sem lé ma jung döné sangye chok
The supreme, primordial buddhahood that does not originate in mind—
rik kün khyab dak khyö la chaktsal tö
Sovereign of all buddha families, to you I offer homage and praise.

nang drak sem sum lha ngak chönyi ngang
With sights, sounds and mind experienced as deity, mantra and dharmatā,
lha ngak chönyi riktong dzogpa ché
Deity, mantra and dharmatā as the great perfection of awareness-emptiness,
riktong tadral rang shé zangtalwa
And awareness-emptiness as my own cognizance, all-penetrating and beyond limits—
yengmé dzinmé ngang né sang ngak da
In a state that is undistracted and free of grasping, I recite the secret mantra:

om ara pa tsana dhih
Oṃ arapacana dhīḥ

chöying kyemé bhendha yangpa ru
In the extensive bandha (skullcup) of the unborn dharmadhātu
shyi nang khordé chö kün tsok su sham
All that manifests from the ground—saṃsāric and nirvāṇic phenomena—is arranged as a feast.
rangrig zakmé tawé jin gyi lab
It is blessed with the view of my own untainted awareness
chöyul lha nam nyepé chi du gyur
And becomes an object of delight to the deities who receive it.

ngöjor zacha tung dang yojé tsok
Actual gifts of food and drink and other substances
tingdzin namkha dzö kyi gya kyé dé
Are increased through the sky-treasury absorption,
mumé kün sal khyön kün dalwa di
To fill the entire expanse of boundless space.1
rabjam tsa sum lha la chöpa bul
To the infinite Three Roots deities, I present this offering.

zangtal rigpé rang sa mazinpar
Failing to hold to the natural state of all-penetrating awareness,
nga dak tsenmar shyenpé shyenwang gi
And overpowered by attachment to notions of “I” and “me”,
da ka dorjé tatsik lé depé
I have transgressed the vajra command that is not to be taken lightly—
nongpa gang chi nying né tol shying shak
Whatever faults I have committed I hereby acknowledge and confess.

zungdzin tsenmar shyenpé toktsok kün
I shall not reject thoughts that involve clinging to dualistic ideas,
mi pang gyur lam du’ang mi jepar
Nor subject them to the path of transformation,
rang yen rigpé raldri nönpo yi
Rather, I shall seal them with the sharp blade of naturally flowing awareness,
chö zé kadak chenpor gyé dabbo
Within the vast primordial purity in which phenomena are exhausted.

shyi lam drebü chö tsul talé kün
All the limitless dharma systems of ground, path and fruition
lha ngak chönyi yeshe rolmo ru
Are like a wisdom symphony of deity, mantra and dharmatā.
ma jé yené dzokpé trin tsok di
Uncreated and always present, may these clouds of perfection
khakhyab gyalwé tukdam nyenpo kang
Fulfil our solemn pledges to the victorious ones throughout space.

dak lü namdak lha yi kyilkhor la
To the maṇḍala of deities within my own body that is utterly pure,
zakmé dütsi chöpa di pulwé
I present this offering of immaculate nectar;
nangwa shyi dzok pochen ökur min
Through this, may I perfect the four visions and ripen as the light body of great transference,
dro kün kyilkhor chik tu changchub shok
And may all beings attain awakening all together in a single maṇḍala.

lhündrub rinpoche yi bub long du
May the guests for the remainder, thoughts that arise when the stronghold
tsen sa ma zin toktsok lhak drön nam
Is not secured within the precious expansive sphere of spontaneous presence,
dé dang nyingjé lhaktor di shyé la
Accept this remainder torma of faith and compassion,
ten dang dro la pendé gatön pel
And extend the festival of benefit and happiness for the teachings and beings.

di tsön dü sum sakpé gé tsok kün
As represented by this, may all virtues accumulated in the past, present and future,
khakhyab drowé gyü la yong min né
Ripen fully in the mindstreams of all beings throughout the whole of space,
kün kyang nangsal khyechö druk dangden
So that they may all awaken in the youthful vase body
shyönnu bumpa ku ru changchub shok
Complete with its six special features of inner luminosity.2

ngang shyak lodral chökü tawa dak
The pure dharmakāya view, settled in a state beyond the ordinary mind,
ngönsum tsepeb longkü gompa dzok
The perfect sambhogakāya meditation, with the full measure of direct experience,
yingrik yermé tulkü chöpa min
And the mature nirmāṇakāya conduct, in which space and awareness are indivisible—
ku sum tsolmé drubpé tashi shok
May all be auspicious for the effortless accomplishment of these three kāyas.

Thus, on the very highest peak of Wutaishan in China, in the cave known as the Cave of Nārāyaṇa,
which was prophesied in texts such as the Avataṃsaka Sūtra and which is where youthful
Mañjuśrī continuously resides surrounded by his retinue of many tens of thousands of bodhisattvas
including Vajrapāṇi, Ngawang Lodrö Tsungme put into writing what had arisen effortlessly
out of the expanse of awareness. May virtue abound.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.
↑ kun gsal (all-illuminating) here is a synonym for space.↑ 1) The fruition is superior to the
ground (gzhi las 'phags pa); 2) it manifests in one's own experience (rang ngor snang ba);
3) it is discerning (bye brag phyed pa); 4) it is freed in the immediacy of that discernment
(phyed thog tu grol ba); 5) it does not arise from anything else (gzhan las ma byung
ba); 6) it abides in its own place (rang sar gnas pa).