The Sun of Samantabhadra’s Realm
The Quintessence of Oceanic Prayers of Aspiration
by Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok

drang yé tsok zung pal gyi trünpé ku
Your enlightened body was formed through the splendour of twofold accumulation beyond measure;
yenlak drukchu denpa tsang yang sung
Your enlightened speech, the melody of Brahmā, has sixty aspects;
tob chü yönten künné dzokpé tuk
And your enlightened mind is perfectly replete with the qualities of the ten powers—
tubwang lha yi lha chok gong su sol
Mighty Sage, supreme deity of deities, turn your attention towards me, I pray.

dukngal sum gyi ché cher narwé tsok
Just as you embraced with intense care and compassion
gang gi tsé chen tukjé nyewar zung
The multitudes tormented by the three types of suffering,1
dön nyi döpa yishyin jowé chir
And set your mind on supreme and unsurpassed awakening,
lamé changchub chok tu tukkyé tar
In order to fulfil the twin aims and wishes of yourself and others,
dak kyang khanyam dro kün matong bar
May I too remain untempted by the allure of selfish peace and bliss,
rangdön shyidé pal la mi chakpar
And, until all beings, who are as innumerable as space is vast, are freed,
shyenpen lhakpé sam chö gyen shyin ten
Rely on the adornment of altruistic concern and beneficial conduct.
jukpar ja o sipé drongkhyer la
In all my lives, as I willingly enter the citadel of conditioned existence,
kyewa küntu yab chik khyenpé ter
May I be cared for and joyfully accepted by the sole father of all,
jampal pawö gyé shyin jesu zung
That veritable treasury of wisdom, heroic Mañjuśrī,
kuntuzangpö mönlam lé tenpé
And may I perfect the oceanic conduct of the bodhisattvas,
changchub chöpa gyatso tarchin shok
As revealed in Samantabhadra's prayer of aspiration.

ma ong namdren gugya guchu druk
In future, when nine hundred and ninety-six great guides
shying dir ngön tsanggyawé tsul tön tsé
Display the attainment of awakening in this very realm,
taktu shyab drang nyer né chok tu gyur
May I serve them constantly as the best of their attendants,
lab chen trinlé pelwé tu tob shok
And gain the power to contribute to their magnificent activity.

zang ngen lé kyi drelwé semchen nam
May all beings with whom I am connected, through actions good or bad,
tsé di pö tsé dechen shying du kyé
Take birth, as soon as they depart this life, in the realm of Great Bliss,
ö tsen tong bar sung gi lungten tob
There to receive prophecy from Ablaze with Myriad Tokens of Light2
khyen tsé nü pé tsal chen dzokpar shok
And fulfil their enormous potential for knowledge, love and strength.

drimé gyalten dar shying yündu né
May the faultless teachings of Buddha flourish and endure,
rimé dro nam pendé pal gyi tso
And all beings without exception enjoy the splendour of benefit and happiness.
dü kün yi la mönpa di khona
This, and only this, is my constant aspiration—
tün gyur sung gi ukyung dengdir tsol
Assure me, here and now, that it all will be fulfilled.

tashi gangshyik püntsok dé shyi ter
May auspiciousness ripen as a treasure of fourfold abundance,3
malü kyegü nyer tsö sö su min
Healing nourishment for all living beings without exception.
mi shi güpa tsal kyang mi nyepé
And may ills and misfortune be forever entirely unknown,
gelek nangwé sa sum khyabpar shok
As the light of virtue and excellence fills the three domains.

Thus, before the throne of the Tathāgata, which is adorned by the bodhi tree, in the central
land of the Vajra Seat (i.e., Bodhgayā), Ngawang Lodrö Tsungmé made this aspiration and prayed
that the buddhas and their heirs might bless it and bring about its fulfilment. The
recording was subsequently transcribed by the respectful disciple Sodargye on the tenth day
of the ninth month of the Iron Horse year of the seventeenth calendrical cycle (29 October
1990).

| Translated by Adam Pearcey and Sean Price, 2020.
↑ i.e., the suffering of suffering, suffering of change, and all-pervasive suffering of conditioned
existence.↑ An epithet of Amitābha.↑ i.e., abundant dharma, wealth, enjoyments and
liberation.