The Swift Bestowal of Blessings: A Guru Yoga
by Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok

ah
khor dé chö kün kadak rigpé ngang
Ah! All the phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are primordially pure within the experience of
pure awareness,
rang dang ma gak yeshe ö ngé long
Within its unceasing self-radiance, an expanse of five-coloured wisdom light,
ngowo palden jampé dorje la
In essence you are the glorious Mañjuvajra,
nampa kyab chik yishyhin norbu nyi
And in form, you appear as the sole refuge, the wish-fulfilling jewel:
kar sal dzé dzum pendi ta yi ché
Brilliant white, with a radiant smile and paṇḍita’s attire,
chö ché chak gyé raldri lek bam nam
With the mudrā of expounding the Dharma, holding a sword and volume of text,
shyab nyi kyil trung özer mu mé tro
Your two legs crossed as you radiate boundless rays of light.
rang nang dakpé gyen du lam mer sal
All is vividly clear, an adornment of pure self-appearance.
Supplication
né chen riwo tsé ngé shying kham su
In the pure realm of the great sacred site, the Five-Peaked Mountain,
jampel tuk kyi jin lab yi la min
The blessings of Mañjuśrī’s wisdom ripened in your mind—
jigmé pün tsok shyab la söl wa dep
Jigme Phuntsok, at your feet I pray!
gong gyü tokpa powar jin gyi lop
Inspire me with your blessings: transmit the realization of the wisdom-mind lineage!
Repeat this as many times as possible. Then:
tar ni lama ö ngé tikler gyur
At the end, the guru becomes a sphere of five-coloured light,
rang gi chiwo né shyuk nying ü tim
Which enters the crown of my head and dissolves into the centre of my heart.
gyal kun yeshe chik du lama dang
I obtain the blessing of becoming equal to
kalwa nyampé jin lab tob par sam
The guru in whom all the buddhas’ wisdom is combined.
Rest in a state of dharmakāya, beyond the ordinary mind. Then, as you arise, regard all that
appears and exists as the guru’s very essence, and carry out your regular activity.

Ngawang Lodrö Tsungmé composed this to benefit the supreme tulku and lord of speech for the
Land of Snows, Tendzin Gyatso, as well as all my other disciples, who had expressed the need
for just such a practice. It arose, effortlessly and spontaneously, as the natural expression
of Mañjuśrī, awareness and emptiness, on the 25th day of the sixth month in the wood
pig year of the seventeenth calendrical cycle (1995) in the hermitage where rainbow clouds
gather in the sky’s expanse. The learned, disciplined and accomplished lord Tulku Lungtok
Gyatso acted as the scribe. May virtue abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2018. Updated 2019.