The Sunlight of Blessings: A Prayer
by Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok

dü sum gyalwa tamché düpé ku
Embodiment of all the victorious buddhas of past, present and future,
malü dro kün drenpé depön chok
Supreme guide leading all wandering beings,
khandro gyatsö tsok pön heruka
Heruka presiding over the assembly of ḍākas and ḍākinīs,
yishyin norbu khyé la nying né dü
To you, Wish-fulfilling Jewel, I offer heartfelt homage!

khyö lé lhakpé lama dak la mé
I have no greater teacher than you!
khyö kyi sung lé nyamlen shyen du mé
I have no practice other than your advice!
dü kün ré tö chikpur khyö ten na
At all times, I rely on you as my only hope,
yishyin nor shyé böpa dönden dzö
Calling out to you as my wish-fulfilling jewel: may you be just that!

dak ni lomen jangpa chungwé na
My mental powers are weak and my training slight,
pong lok gyacher jé la tu chung yang
I have little capacity for renunciation or extensive study,
lama chok dang jampal shyönnu zung
But I visualize you, supreme guru, inseparable from the ever-youthful Mañjuśrī,
yermé chiwö tsuk gam nying ü su
On the crown of my head or in the centre of my heart.
shyukpar mö né solwa deb lak na
And, with devotion, pray to you sincerely:
jinlab tukjé go kal mi menpar
Inspire me so that my share of blessings and compassion is not meagre,
wang gi min ching dampé gyü drol té
My mindstream is ripened through empowerment and liberated through instruction,
nang shyi ta ru khyolwar jingyi lob
And I reach the conclusion of the four visions!

kyewa küntu khyé dang mindral shying
In this and all my future lives, may I never be separated from you,
tingdzin yönten gyatsö ter la wang
And, by mastering the treasury of vast, ocean-like samādhis and qualities,
jampal yang shyin namkha jisi du
May I remain for as long as space exists, just like Mañjughoṣa,
malü drowé dön la tsön gyur chik
To strive for the benefit of all living beings!

Ngawang Lodrö Tsungmé composed this at the request of the virtuous disciple Rigdön in the solitary
place of Mount Wutai. May virtue prevail!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2018.