The Healing Medicine of Faith
A Prayer to the Lineage of the Peaceful Sādhana of Mañjuśrī
by Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok

chöying tadral chökü shyingkham su
In the dharmakāya realm, the infinite dharmadhātu,
khyechö drukden dömé tsensa zin
You seized the primordial stronghold with its six special features:1
jampal kuntuzang la solwa deb
Mañjuśrī Samantabhadra, to you I pray:
kadak ngönsum tokpar jingyi lob
Inspire me to realize primordial purity!

rangnang namdak longkü shyingkham su
In the sambhogakāya realm, self-manifest and utterly pure,
ngepa ngaden tak kyi chakgyar dzok
You are perfect in your symbolic form with fivefold certainty:2
jampal dorjé chang la solwa deb
Mañjuśrī Vajradhara, to you I pray:
nang shyi ta ru chinpar jingyi lob
Inspire me to reach the culmination of the four visions!

ma ngé drodul tulkü shyingkham su
In the nirmāṇakāya realm for taming beings in unpredictable ways,
gang dul trulwé rolpa chiryang tön
You display all manner of emanations to guide others as appropriate:
jampal yeshe sempar solwa deb
Mañjuśrī, wisdom being, to you I pray:
ten drö dön chen drubpar jingyi lob
Inspire me to accomplish great benefit for the teachings and beings!

né chen riwo tsé ngé shyingkham su
In the realm of the Five-Peaked Mountain, the great sacred place,
jampal tuk kyi jinlab yi la min
The blessings of Mañjuśrī’s wisdom matured in your mind,
jikme püntsok shyab la solwa deb
Jigme Puntsok, at your feet I pray:
gonggyü tokpa powar jingyi lob
Inspire me with the realization of the mind-transmission lineage!

shyenyang tsa gyü lama yidam lha
To all the root and lineage masters, the yidam deities,
khandro damchen ché la solwa deb
Ḍākinīs and oath-bound guardians, I pray:
jinlab ngödrub chok tob trinlé drub
Inspire me to receive your blessings and the supreme attainment,
barché tadak shyiwar jingyi lob
And to accomplish enlightened activity and pacify all obstacles!

detar solwa tabpé jinlab kyi
Through the blessings of praying in this way,
tsé dir chösi lektsok gong du pel
In this life, may every excellence, both spiritual and temporal, increase;
chima dren chok lamé gyutrul dang
And, in future, may we all gain realization in the very same gathering,
yermé tsombu chik tu drubpar shok
Inseparable from the illusory form of the supreme guide and guru.

Thus, to fulfil the wishes of Lama Chöying and Södön and others, Ngawang Lodrö Tsungmé, composed
this in the remote Asura cave at the supreme emanated place of Wutaishan. May virtue
abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.
↑ 1) The fruition is superior to the ground (gzhi las 'phags pa); 2) it manifests in one's own
experience (rang ngor snang ba); 3) it is discerning (bye brag phyed pa); 4) it is freed
in the immediacy of that discernment (phyed thog tu grol ba); 5) it does not arise from
anything else (gzhan las ma byung ba); 6) it abides in its own place (rang sar gnas pa).↑
i.e., the certain place, teacher, teaching, assembly and time.