The Cintāmaṇi (Wish-Fulfilling Jewel) Instruction
A Sādhana of the Glorious Vajrasattva, a Method of Purification and Accomplishment for Both
Self and Others
by Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok

Taking Refuge
namo
Namo!
di né changchub nyingpö bar
From now until I attain the essence of awakening
rik dang kyilkhor gyatsö dak
I take refuge in the sovereign of all lineages and oceanic maṇḍalas,
lama dorjé sempa la
The Guru Vajrasattva,
yiché depé kyab su chi
With confident faith and devotion.

Generating Bodhicitta
khanyam drowa tadak kün
I shall persevere physically, verbally and mentally,
ten dé sa la ukyung chir
And never depart from the path to awakening;
lü ngak yi kyi tsönpa kün
So as to bring everyone throughout the reaches of space
changchub lam dang dral mija
To relief in the stable bliss of enlightenment.

Actual Sādhana
ah, rang dün chötrin gyatsö ü
Āḥ. In front of me, amidst oceanic clouds of offerings,
pekar dawé den tengdu
Is a throne of white lotus and moon cushion,
rik dü palden dorjé sem
Upon which is Vajrasattva, embodiment of all buddha lineages.
karsal dawa gyepé dang
He is brilliant white with the glow of the full moon.
shyal chik chak nyi dodril nam
He has one face and holds a bell and vajra in his two hands,
longkü ché dzok kyil trung shyuk
And is seated cross-legged in full sambhogakāya attire.
yeshe özer chok chur tro
The light-rays of his wisdom radiate throughout the ten directions.
dangwé yi ngor lham mér sal
All of this appears vividly and clearly in my mind.

kyema lama dorjé sem
Kyema! Guru Vajrasattva,
ngön gyi damcha nyer gong né
Please recall your promise:
dak sok nyamtak semchen nam
Think of us poor, wretched beings,
tukjé jesu dzinpar dzö
And hold us in your compassion.
tokmé dü né dawar du
Throughout beginningless time until now,
lü ngak yi kyi diktung nam
We have committed misdeeds and transgressions physically, verbally, and mentally.
jitar khong du duk song tar
Realising this, we feel as regretful and sorrowful
nonggyö drakpö tol shying shak
As if we had ingested poison.
chinché sok la bab gyur kyang
We openly admit and confess these deeds before you.
mi ö lé nam mi gyi na
In future, even at the cost of our lives, we’ll not waste this opportunity by repeating them.
dzumpé chen gyi zik dzö la
Look lovingly upon us
jam nyen chak gi ukyung tsol
And grant us relief with your tender embrace.
dak dang semchen tamché kyi
For us and all sentient beings,
damtsik nyamchak kün dak ching
Purify all impairments and breaches of samaya
chok dang tünmong ngödrub kün
And let us accomplish all common and supreme attainments
danta nyi du drubpar dzö
Right now, this very instant!
With this supplication the four powers are complete.
om benza sato hung
oṃ vajrasattva hūṃ
Repeat the mantra four hundred thousand times to purify all breaches of the root samayas. Samaya.

hung, di tsön dü sum gé tsok kün
Hūm. I hereby dedicate this, and all merit accrued throughout the three times,
talé drowé döndu ngo
To the welfare of all infinite beings.
kün kyang dorjé sempa yi
May each and every one of them
gopang nyurdu tobpar shok
Swiftly achieve the state of Vajrasattva.

om, gang nang ku yi gyen du dak
Oṃ. May all that appears be purified as an adornment of kāya, the deity’s form;
dra drak ngak kyi rolwar dzok
May all sound be perfected as mantra, the deity’s speech;
dren tok tuk kyi ngang du min
May all memories and thought mature within the deity’s wisdom mind;
püntsok palbar tashi shok
And may all be auspicious, excellent and splendid!

This sādhana arose as a display of the natural radiance of awareness within the experience of
Ngawang Lodrö Tsungmé, on the eleventh day of the third month in the year of the Fire Ox
(17 April 1997). It was carefully written down by his disciple Tsultrim Drimé. May it be
virtuous!

| Translated by Sean Price and Adam Pearcey, 2020.